All right, we are back.
Last Lecture, we covered the styles
that you can make your bio,
in, and we discussed the right level of the emoji use-ness.
Great.
Now let's talk about the actual content of it.
You only get 150 characters in your bio,
so what should you say?
150 characters really is more like 2-3 short sentences
or one normal sentence plus a short one.
You don't have a whole lot of wiggle
room here, which is good and bad.
Don't have a lot of space for things to say, but also
it's not like you have infinite possibilities, so
you shouldn't have analysis paralysis.
Either way, I want to make it simple for you.
In your bio text, you need to answer two questions.
Number one, what is this? What is this account?
Number two, why you should follow me?
OK.
That's what we want to know when we go to a profile.
Now, imagine you see a funny comment or a funny post,
you click the profile icon, you go to their page.
You want to know, who is this?
Do they post more of the same?
Would I want their stuff popping up in my feed?
Basically, should I marry this and spend my life with it?
Luckily, Instagram users don't believe in monogamy,
so the bar here is actually pretty low.
Most users have between 100 and 300 accounts that they follow,
so they're pretty loose with their love.
It's kind of like the show The Bachelor, except instead
of choosing one, they just got rid of the one
that was really annoying and then they
marry all the others. Kind of like a cult.
Anyway, the point is that you need to justify why you
should fit in that not at all selective group of 100-300.
Now, if you did a good job with your account name,
and you weren't just lame and copied your username
into your account name, then
you should have a head start.
That should explain who you are.
That means you actually can just
use all the bio to explain the why.
Why are you worthy of being followed?
If you're stuck, try to think of things like, what
are your credentials? Why are you different?
What's your general outlook on anything?
How often do you post?
That's actually a really good one, because it always
is really nice to let people know that you are active,
so that they don't actually have to go and look at your
photos and do detective work by looking at time
stamps to see if you're active.
People don't like following inactive accounts.
The bio is just copywriting 101.
Don't sell your service or product, sell your account.
Tell them the benefits of signing up instead
of just telling them flatly what you do.
So why should they follow you?
Let's try writing a couple of these, and
let's do it for some made up accounts.
Let's say that you make a cryptocurrency portfolio system
where the users can view how much money they blew
on things like Dogecoin or whatever
Bitcoin is the real Bitcoin.
I actually can't remember, it's either
Bitcoin Classic or like Bitcoin 2.
So in your account name you might put,
let's say, Smart Bitcoin Management.
OK.
And then in the bio, let's say you put two lines, and one is
"The number one Bitcoin app on Apple Store 2018"
and then "Follow us for everyday
Bitcoin trends and insights."
There you go.
The name tells them what you are and
it could easily be the subtitle to your app.
Then we gave our credentials and
answered the "why should you care" bit.
Then we told them why follow us specifically.
If they want Bitcoin analysis, Bitcoin analysis
they shall get. A lot of times it's not immediately obvious
why they should follow an Instagram account.
If I'm a massage parlor and I make
an Instagram account, that's cool, but
why would I follow your Instagram account?
You need to tell them. "You get discounts",
or "we show you techniques", or whatever.
Let's do another one.
Let's say you're a pop up shop selling avocado toast, which inexplicably is a thing and it costs about $8 in San Francisco.
So, for our name, let's just go with something like
"Best Avocado Toast in Town." For your bio,
then we just have to answer what are the benefits of this theoretical shop and what else do users need to know about us.
So how about like, "Artisanally designed and mouthwatering"?
"Now at the Pier building in SF", San Francisco.
Then you could put "Follow for new locations."
Yes, I know, blah, but you get the point.
We hit them with the "we're the best in the [...],"
then we gave a little differentiation.
"We're artisanal."
I'm not really sure how exactly that applies
to toast, but maybe that will pique interest.
Then we gave some crucial info, where we are and why
you should follow us. A lot of businesses never really
justify why you should follow them,
and as a result, people don't.
It's not immediately obvious why a pop up
shop needs an Instagram account.
OK guys, that's it for now.
Hopefully these examples helped you. In the
resources, we have more examples, if you're stuck.
Other than that, it's pretty simple.
Justify why they should follow you,
give them a real reason, give some differentiation,
show your credentials, or if you're, you know, stuck
where they don't actually know what your account is yet,
explain what you are.
Alright guys.
With that being said, moving on.